[MUSIC PLAYING]
Using JavaScript to do complex
animations in the browser
often looks like stop
motion animation.
It's janky and can block
rendering or input.
In Chrome 46, the motion
path module changes that.
The markup required
for responsive images
becomes much simpler
with client hints,
and service workers just
keep getting better.
Let's take a look at what's
new in Chrome for developers.
Animations in CSS has
existed for some time now,
but if you wanted to do
something a little bit more
complex-- for example,
animate an object
along a specific,
non-linear path-- well,
you needed to use
JavaScript for that.
Thankfully, the CSS motion
path module changes that.
You can now animate objects
along an arbitrary path in CSS,
and because it's CSS it
doesn't block the browser.
The key is the motion
path property, which
is used to define the path.
You can specify the shape you
want the object to follow,
like a circle, ellipse,
or polygon, or you can
specify an SVG path.
You also need to provide
the motion offset property.
That defines how far along
the path the object is.
Put another way, the distance
from the start point.
You're now ready to start
to animate something.
But there's one more helpful
property you might want to set.
Say, for example, you're
animating a car around a box.
When it's time to
turn the corner,
the car should actually
not just start moving sideways.
Motion rotation allows
you to set the direction
that the object is facing.
In this case, I'd use
an angle, but there
are other values you can use.
So be to check the examples
linked in the description
below.
I've long been a fan of source
set and the picture element
to serve the right image
to the right device,
but it can be a little hard.
For example, say I wanted
to display an image
at 50% of the user's
viewport, and I
want to send the right
image to each device.
My phone has a very different
viewport than my laptop,
so I need to take
that into account.
I need to take into account
the screen resolution.
My laptop has a 2x screen
versus my desktop monitor,
which is only 1x.
And, finally, it
would be nice to send
a JPEG XR to edge
browsers, WebP to Chrome,
and JPEG to everything else.
But that's just too hard.
But this becomes much
simpler with client hints.
Adding the meta tag meta HTTP
equiv accept-ch content equals
dpr, viewport width,
width to the document head
tells the browser to advertise
the device-pixel ratio,
the layout viewport width,
and the intended display width
through the resource
to the server.
The server can then
serve the best image,
one that is served to the
exact needs of the device.
That picture element we had
earlier becomes much cleaner.
Client hints are
disabled by default,
so you'll need to add the
meta tag to your page.
Check out Ilya's
post linked below,
including how you can use
service workers for resource
selection.
Speaking of service workers,
there are a few new additions
and changes here.
To protect users, the Cache
API is now restricted to HTTPS.
Cache.addAll is now supported,
removing the need for polyfills
when dealing with bulk
interactions in the cache.
Resource timing and
user timing are now
available in service worker,
and the Fetch API now
supports Request.redirect.
These are just a few of the
new features in Chrome 46
for developers.
You can get more details from
the links in the description.
And please subscribe to our
new Chrome Developers YouTube
channel.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 47 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]